学术报告-Pursuing Photonics through Cross-Discipl
题目：Pursuing Photonics through Cross-Disciplinary Analogy
时间：2019年5月9日（周四）上午9:00
地点：北区物理与光电工程学院3楼多功能厅
报告人：Haohua Tu 博士（University of Illinois）
报告人简介：Haohua Tu is a Senior Research Scientist at Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He has exposure to a wide variety of disciplines in his scientific career, including chemical engineering, materials science, optics, spectroscopy, photonic devices, and biomedical imaging. He and Prof. Stephen Boppart are currently managing Biophotonics Imaging Laboratory that focuses on developing novel optical biomedical diagnostic and imaging technologies and translating them into clinical applications.  Dr. Tu received his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Tsinghua University in 1992, and Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering and Material Sciences from University of Kentucky in 2001.  He has published over 70 invited and contributed publications, including those in top journals such as Nature Photonics, Nature Physics, Nature Communications, and Science Advances, and over 4 patents related to laser source engineering and optical biomedical imaging technology.  He has mentored over 40 graduate and post-graduate interdisciplinary researchers. Dr. Tu has been a strong advocate for the integration of engineering and medicine to advance human health and our healthcare systems.
报告摘要：Scientific breakthroughs often arise from the intersections among different disciplines. This observation not only demands the investigators to acquire cross-disciplinary knowledge, but also to quantitatively or qualitatively connect similar phenomena through analogy. Although analogy is a well-recognized method in theoretical studies, it has been relatively underappreciated in experimental researches. Here, based on a personal journey that exploits multifaceted aspects of experimental photonics, I intend to convey the message how analogy is ubiquitous and may lead to new discoveries, how analogy mitigates cross-disciplinary barrier and enables synergetic collaboration, and how analogy inspires investigators to conduct research free of special intentions. This message will be conveyed through four representative themes, i.e. “Toward quantum biology”, “Scientist as a magician”, “Optical fiber playground”, and “Photonic transformation of pathology”.
