高等研究院系列学术讲座一百零九
Emulating Human Hematopoietic/Immune Cell Development and Ageing in Integrated Organ-on-a-Chip Dr. Ryohichi SugimuraKyoto University
About the SpeakerDr. Ryohichi Sugimura obtained his PhD degree from Stowers Institute for Medical Research in 2012, then he worked as a postgraduate researcher at Stowers Institute for Medical Research from 2012 to 2014, and as a postdoctoral fellow at Boston Children’s Hospital from 2014 to 2018. He is currently a research scientist at CiRA, Kyoto University. Dr. Ryohichi Sugimura have studied the role of microenvironmental signal in the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells (Sugimura, 2012, Cell) and identification of gene regulatory networks to induce hematopoietic stem cells from human pluripotent stem cells (Sugimura, 2017, Nature). His research interest focuses on developmental hematopoiesis.
Talk IntroductionHematopoietic/immune cells regulate the homeostasis of interorgan communications, and their dysregulation leads to age-associated diseases such as cancers. A fundamental limitation of understanding interorgan communications is the lack of a good human model for hematopoietic/immune cell development and ageing. I have contributed both to the understanding of the microenvironmental regulation of hematopoietic stem cells (Cell, 2012) and the recapitulation of human hematopoietic/immune cell development (Nature, 2017). In my current position, I formed a collaborative team that is establishing an integrated Organ-on-a-Chip (iOC) platform to emulate interorgan communications during human hematopoietic/immune cell development (Journal of Visualized Experiments, 2019). I have also highlighted the significance of microenvironmental signaling in developmental hematopoiesis (Gordon Conference: Red Cells, 2019). Herein, I envision how iOC will serve as a platform to dissect the cellular and molecular mechanisms in human hematopoietic/immune cell development and ageing.
时间：2019年5月7日10:00-11:00地点：办公楼103会议室All are welcome！
