【医学部学术讲座】-- Design of novel self-healing
题目：
1. Design of novel self-healing and load-bearing composite biomaterials for bone regeneration； 
2. Electrospinning techniques & possibilities for biomedical applications
 
主讲嘉宾： Radboud University Medical Center, The Netherlands
Professor　Sander Leeuwenburgh
　　　　　　　 Radboud University Medical Center, The Netherlands
 　　　　　　　Assistant Professor　 Fang Yang
时　 间：2019年5月14日下午 15:00 – 16:30 
地　 点：深圳大学西丽校区A7-551
主持人：王华楠 教授
 
主讲嘉宾简介：
Sander.C.G. Leeuwenburgh studied Materials Science and Engineering at the Delft University of Technology and obtained his PhD degree at Radboud University. Thereafter, he continued his scientific career as a postdoc and was awarded a Young Investigator Award (VENI) by the Dutch Technology Foundation STW and was appointed as assistant professor at the Department of Biomaterials. In June 2015 he was appointed as associate professor after obtaining a prestigious VIDI award that enabled him to start his research group on nanostructured biomaterials. In April 2018 he was appointed as full professor in Regenerative Biomaterials at Radboudumc. He published more than 125 peer-reviewed papers and has an h-index of 31 (Web of Science) or 38(Google Scholar).
 
 
Dr. Fang Yang obtained her Ph.D. degree from National University of Singapore in 2005 under the supervision of Prof. Seeram Ramakrishna. After that, she joined Prof. John Jansen’s group at Department of Biomaterials in Radboud University Medical Centre in the Netherlands until now. Her current research focuses on the development of nanofibrous matrix as an extracellular matrix with the incorporation of therapeutic agents for bone and periodontal tissue regeneration. She is also interested in local drug delivery to prevent implant-associated infections. Her expertise lies in biopolymers and biocomposites, electrospinning technique and biomaterials characterization (both physicochemical and biological evaluation). She has published more than 80 journal articles and served as a peer reviewer for about ten journals in the related field.

