【学术讲座】Joint Task Assignment and Resource Allocation for D2D
讲座题目: Joint Task
Assignment and Resource Allocation for D2D-Enabled Mobile-Edge Computing
主讲嘉宾：邢泓  副研究员  深圳大学
邀请人：毕宿志  副教授
讲座时间：2019年5月15日（周三）下午3:00
讲座地点：电子与信息工程学院N723会议室
讲座摘要:
With the proliferation of latency-critical applications in the 5G and
beyond networks, mobile-edge computing (MEC) or fog computing, which provides
cloud-like computation and/or storage capabilities at the network edge, is
envisioned to reduce computation latency as well as to conserve energy for
wireless devices (WDs). This talk focuses on one of the speaker’s work studying
a novel device-to-device (D2D)-enabled multi-helper MEC system, in which a
local user solicits its nearby WDs serving as helpers for cooperative
computation. We assume a time division multiple access (TDMA) transmission
protocol, under which the local user offloads the tasks to multiple helpers and
downloads the results from them over orthogonal pre-scheduled time slots. Under
this setup, we minimize the computation latency by optimizing the local user's
task assignment jointly with the time and rate for task offloading and results
downloading, as well as the computation frequency for task execution, subject
to individual energy and computation capacity constraints at the local user and
the helpers. However, the formulated problem is a mixed-integer non-linear
program (MINLP) that is difficult to solve. To tackle this challenge, we
propose an efficient algorithm by first relaxing the original problem into a
convex one, and then constructing a suboptimal task assignment solution based on
the obtained optimal one. To further reduce the implementation complexity, we
also develop a heuristic scheme based on the greedy task assignment. Finally,
numerical results validate the effectiveness of our proposed algorithm, as
compared against the heuristic scheme and other benchmark ones without either
joint optimization of radio and computation resources or task assignment
design.
嘉宾简介：
XING Hong (邢泓) received the
B.Eng. degree in Electronic Sciences and Technologies, and B.A. degree in
English literature both from Zhejiang University, China, in 2011, and the Ph.D.
degree in Wireless Communications from King's College London, U.K., in 2015.
She is currently a Research Associate with the College of Information
Engineering, Shenzhen University, China. Previously, she was a Post-Doctoral
Research Fellow with the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science,
Queen Mary University of London, U.K. from September 2017 to January 2019, and
before then she was a Research Associate with the Department of Informatics,
King’s College London, U.K., from February 2016 to August 2017. Her research
interests include physical-layer security, wireless information and power
transfer, mobile-edge computing, fog computing system and non-orthogonal
multiple access (NOMA). She was a recipient of the Best 50 of IEEE Global
Communications Conference (GLOBECOM) 2014. She served as Member of Technical
Program Committees for several IEEE conferences. She is currently an Associate
Editor of the IEEE Access.


欢迎各位师生参加！
