【医学部学术讲座】--Targeting cancer stem cells
题　　目：Targeting cancer stem cells to prevent disease relapse
主讲嘉宾：CHRISTOPHER HEESCHEN 教授
时　　间：2019年5月8日上午10:00-11:00 
地　　点：深圳大学医学部A6-701
主 持 人：朱卫国 教授
报告内容简介：
The aim of Prof. Chris Heeschen’s research programme is to improve the still dismal outcome of patients with pancreatic cancer. He has shown, down to a single cell, that pancreatic cancer contains highly tumourigenic and metastatic cancer stem cells (CSC). Their specific genetic ablation prevented disease relapse, encouraging his group to systematically develop treatment strategies that eliminate all cancer cells including CSC. He has established an array of novel technologies, enabling him to isolate, track and study rare human CSC in real time. He uses advanced genetic and pharmacological tools to identify novel CSC signalling elements as well as cancer-specific immune targets. Preclinical validation studies include the use of novel switchable mouse models and humanised xenograft models. These multidisciplinary efforts allowed his group to establish several highly effective multimodal treatment strategies as well as tuneable CAR T-cell immunotherapies. Prof. Heeschen now aims to translate these findings into novel precision medicine clinical trials, CSC-centred and liquid biopsy-guided, and thereby contribute to a better outcome for pancreatic cancer patients.
 
报告嘉宾简介：
Prof. Chris Heeschen obtained his MD in 1997 at the Free University of Berlin (Germany). During his clinical training in Internal Medicine (1996 – 2004), he also earned a PhD for his studies in basic mechanisms of angiogenesis and vasculogenic stem cells at the Falk Cardiovascular Research Centre at Stanford University (USA). Prof. Heeschen subsequently became Head of the Department Experimental Medicine at Ludwig-Maximilian-University in Munich (Germany) and shifted his research focus from stem cells in regenerative medicine to cancer. Since then he held several leadership positions including the Clinical Research Programme at the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre (2008,) and the Centre for Stem Cells in Cancer & Ageing at the Barts Cancer Institute in London (2013). In 2018, he joined UNSW Sydney to establish his translational research program, with a particular focus on pancreatic cancer. Prof. Heeschen has an excellent track record with currently 28,540 citations (9,844 since 2014) and an h-index of 67. Eighteen of his papers have been cited >500 times, seven papers >1,000 times.
 
 
