【学术讲座】Role and Challenges of Embedded AI
讲座题目：Role and Challenges of Embedded AI in the Era of Internet
Intelligence-of-Things  (嵌入式人工智能在智联网时代的角色和挑战)
主讲嘉宾：Prof. Yong Lian
　　　 　　 Fellow
of IEEE
　　　 　　 Fellow of Academy of Engineering Singapore
　　　 　　 President, IEEE Circuits and Systems
Society


　　　 　     Chair,
IEEE Periodicals Partnership Opportunities Committee
邀请人：黎 冰  副教授 （IEEE CASS Shenzhen Chapter Invited Lecture）
讲座时间：2019.05.06（周一）上午10:30


讲座地点：电子与信息工程学院N710会议室
讲座摘要：
Internet-of-Things (IoT) is the inter-networking of physical devices,
vehicles, buildings, and objects with embedded sensors. It is estimated that by
2020 there will be more than 34 billion IoT devices connected to the Internet.
Nearly $6 trillion will be spent on IoT solutions over the next five years.
Artificial Intelligence (AI), on the other hand, is intelligence demonstrated
by machines that work and react like humans. Some examples of AI powered
applications are voice-powered personal assistants like Siri and Cortana,
machine translation, email spam filter, etc. The combination of AI and IoT
gives birth of Internet Intelligence-of-Things (I2oT). I2oT devices differ from
IoT devices that not only they sense, store, transmit data but also analyze and
act on data, i.e. the I2oT device makes a decision or perform a task similar to
what a person could do. Most of existing “smart” IoT devices, which are
controllable from an APP, are not I2oT devices. The true I2oT devices should be
able to perform a task on your behalf, such as autonomous vehicle – it drives
for you. The enabling technology for the I2oT device is embedded AI. This talk
will cover low power techniques for embedded AI in I2oT applications. The focus
is on the energy efficient system architecture that utilizes the brain-inspired
event-driven signal representation. The event-driven signal representation
enables data compression at the input source, which greatly reduces the power
for data transmission and processing. We will show by examples that the
event-driven system significantly improves energy efficiency and is well suited
for I2oT applications.
嘉宾简介： 
Dr. Yong Lian received the B.Sc degree from the College of Economics &
Management of Shanghai Jiao Tong University in 1984 and the Ph.D degree from
the Department of Electrical Engineering of National University of Singapore
(NUS) in 1994. His research interest includes low power techniques,
continuous-time signal processing, and biomedical circuits and systems. His
work has been recognized with more than 20 awards including the 1996 IEEE
Circuits and Systems Society's Guillemin-Cauer Award, the 2008 Multimedia
Communications Best Paper Award from the IEEE Communications Society, 2011 IES
Prestigious Engineering Achievement Award, 2012 Faculty Research Award, 2013
Outstanding Contribution Award from Hua Yuan Association and Tan Kah Kee
International Society, 2014 Chen-Ning Yang Award in Science and Technology for
New Immigrant, and the 2015 Design Contest Award in 20th International
Symposium on Low Power Electronics and Design. He is also the recipient of the
National University of Singapore Annual Teaching Excellence Awards in 2009 and
2010, respectively. 
Dr. Lian is the President of the IEEE Circuits and Systems (CAS) Society,
Chair of IEEE Periodicals Partnership Opportunities Committee, a member of IEEE
Periodicals Committee, a member of IEEE Periodicals Review and Advisory
Committee, a member of IEEE Biomedical Engineering Award Committee, a member of
Steering Committee of the IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Circuits and Systems.
He was the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II
for two terms from 2010 to 2013, a member of IEEE Fellow Committee from 2016 to
2018. He served many positions in the IEEE CAS Society including Vice President
for Publications, Vice President for Asia Pacific Region, Chair of the
Biomedical Circuits and Systems Technical Committee, Chair of DSP Technical
Committee, Distinguished Lecturer, etc. He is the founder of several
conferences including BioCAS, ICGCS, and PrimeAsia. 
欢迎各位师生参加！
