【学术讲座】Service Provisioning in 5G Communication Networks


讲座题目：Service
Provisioning in 5G Communication Networks
主讲嘉宾：Prof.
Weihua Zhuang, 加拿大院士，加拿大滑铁卢大学
邀请人：代明军 副教授
讲座时间：2019.05.07（周二）下午15:00
讲座地点：电子与信息工程学院N710会议室
讲座摘要：
The fifth generation (5G) communication networks will accommodate a
wide range of emerging services with diverse service quality requirements. The
network will integrate a variety of network resources and technologies to
support high transmission rate and to enhance quality of experience to mobile
users. The traditional one-size-fits-all network architecture cannot
efficiently meet the needs of different services, due to the poor scalability,
limited adaptability, and inflexibility. Network function virtualization (NFV)
enabled by software defined networking (SDN) technology is a promising approach
for an agile and flexible 5G networking infrastructure. In this presentation,
we will provide an overview of several recent studies for 5G networks,
including dynamic radio resource slicing in wireless network virtualization,
computing and transmission resource allocation in the core network, and how to
establish a customized virtual network topology for multicast services.　 
嘉宾简介：
Dr. Weihua Zhuang has been with the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, University of Waterloo, Canada, since 1993, where she is
a Professor and a Tier I Canada Research Chair in Wireless Communication
Networks. She is the recipient of 2017 Technical Recognition Award from IEEE
Communications Society Ad Hoc & Sensor Networks Technical Committee, and a
co-recipient of several best paper awards from IEEE conferences. Dr. Zhuang was
the Editor-in-Chief of IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology (2007-2013),
Technical Program Chair/Co-Chair of IEEE VTC Fall 2017 and Fall 2016, and the
Technical Program Symposia Chair of the IEEE Globecom 2011. She is a Fellow of
the IEEE, the Royal Society of Canada, the Canadian Academy of Engineering, and
the Engineering Institute of Canada. Dr. Zhuang is an elected member in the
Board of Governors and VP Publications of the IEEE Vehicular Technology
Society. 
欢迎各位师生参加！


