学术讲座：Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security
Topic:Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security 
Professor Meikang Qiu
Shenzhen University、Columbia University, USA
Chair of IEEE Smart Computing STC
 
时间：2019年5月10日 下午2:30-3:30
地点：计算机与软件学院 624室
Bio:Meikang Qiu received the BE and ME degrees from Shanghai Jiao Tong University and received Ph.D. degree of Computer Science from University of Texas at Dallas. Currently, he is aadjunct professor at Columbia University. He is an IEEE Senior member and ACM Senior member. He is the Chair of IEEE Smart Computing Technical Committee.  His research interests include Cyber Security, Big Data Analysis, Cloud Computing, Smarting Computing, Intelligent Data, Embedded systems, etc. A lot of novel results have been produced and most of them have already been reported to research community through high-quality journal and conference papers. He has published 4 books, 400 peer-reviewed journal and conference papers (including 200+ journal articles, 200+ conference papers, 70+ IEEE/ACM Transactions papers). His paper published in IEEE Transactions on Computers about privacy protection for smart phones has been selected as a Highly Cited Paper in 2017. His paper about embedded system security published in Journal of Computer and System Science (Elsevier) have been recognized as Highly Cited Papers in both 2016 and 2017. His paper about data allocation for hybrid memory has been published in IEEE Transactions on Computers has been selected as hot paper (1 in 1000 papers) in 2017. His paper on Tele-health system has won IEEE System Journal 2018 Best Paper Award. He also won ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electrical Systems (TODAES) 2011 Best Paper Award. He has won another 10+ Conference Best Paper Awards in recent years. Currently he is an associate editor of 10+ international journals, including IEEE Transactions on Computers and IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing. He has served as leading guest editor for IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC), special issue on Social Network Security. He is the General Chair/Program Chair of a dozen of IEEE/ACM international conferences, such as IEEE TrustCom, IEEE BigDataSecurity, IEEE CSCloud, and IEEE HPCC. He has won Navy Summer Faculty Award in 2012 and Air Force Summer Faculty Award in 2009. His research is supported by US government such as NSF, NSA, Air Force, Navy and companies such as GE, Nokia, TCL, and Cavium.
 
Abstract: This talk will first illustrate AI: machines mimic “cognitive” functions of human minds, such as “learning” and “problem solving”.Then the AI techniques will be applied to enhance cyber security of various systems. For example, there are two main issues in current V2X (Vehicle-to-Everything) communication system. First: Security and privacy protection needs to be seriously enhanced. Second: latency is especially important in V2X. In this talk, we will discuss about reinforcement learning and deep learning for protecting the security of V2X system while reducing the latency. Examplesand experimental results will be given to show how to provide AI-enhanced security schemes.
计算机与软件学院
2019年5月9日
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 　　  
