学术报告——整合多学科手段挖掘四照花属控制花序变异和抗病基因的研究
主讲嘉宾：Jenny Xiang, PhD, Professor, Plant and Microbial Biology, 
North Carolina State University
主持人：谢宁
报告时间：2019年5月16日下午3:30
报告地点：西丽校区行政楼A6-606
 
报告内容简介
In this seminar, I will talk about work on two projects. One is on the flowering dogwood tree that is threatened by fungal diseases. This work integrates population genomics, landscape genomics, and metabolomics of secondary compounds. Through comparative analyses of genetic and metabolite profiling data we identified candidate genes and metabolites associated with plant heath and 
adaptation to local environments. The other project is an evolutionary developmental genetic study on inflorescence diversity of the dogwood genus. Inflorescence architecture is primarily important to success of angiosperm reproduction and the yield of a crop by influencing seed number and dispersal/harvest ability. Our knowledge regarding the developmental and molecular bases that have altered inflorescence architectures during angiosperm diversification is highly limited. The dogwood genus Cornus L. provides an excellent model for such study due to the variation in inflorescence morphology among species. Through phylogeny-based comparative developmental and functional studies, we attempt to identify the genetic bases responsible for the origin of diverse inflorescence architectures in the genus. 
 
报告嘉宾简介
Dr. Xiang received her Ph.D from Washington State University in 1995. She joined NCSU as an assistant professor in 2001 and became a full professor in 2012. Dr. Xiang is interested in plant evolutionary systematics, phylogenetics, biogeography, and developmental genetics. Dr. Xiang’s research integrates genomics, genetics, ecology, and evolution to understand plant diversity, development, and adaptation. Her current collaborative grant is supported by NSF Dimensions program which supports US-China collaborative research to investigate how historical constraints, local adaptation, and species interactions may have shaped biodiversity across an ancient disjunct floras in Eastern Asia and North America. Dr. Xiang received outstanding NCSU Global Engagement Award.
欢迎感兴趣的师生参加！
