高等研究院知名学者讲学计划第十七期—Fabrication of thin-film composite....
报告题目：Fabrication of thin-film composite membranes with unique 3D surface nano-structures主讲嘉宾：牛青山 教授（中国石油大学（华东））主持人：陈峰 院长时间：2019年5月14号周二10:00-10:50地点：办公楼103会议室
报告摘要：With low energy consumption and high separation efficiency, membrane-based technologies, such as nanofiltration (NF) and reverse osmosis (RO), have shown great potential in the field of seawater desalination and wastewater treatment. This presentation reports an ultrafast and universal surface modification strategy based on the co-deposition of a macrocycle polyphenol molecule, Noria, and polyethyleneimine (PEI), for which only several seconds are required to obtain a uniform coating. Moreover, thin-film composite (TFC) NF membranes were fabricated by traditional interfacial polymerization (IP) using the Noria–PEI co-deposited coating as the interlayer. Interestingly, the host–guest heterogeneous interaction between anchored Noria on the support surface and amine monomers in the aqueous phase could significantly alter the IP process and contribute to a unique nanostrand-hybrid morphology for much improved NF separation performance. Furthermore, an in situ strategy was utilized to synthesize the Zeolite imidazolate framework-8 (ZIF-8) nanocrystal on Noria-polyethyleneimine (PEI) modified interlayer surface for the preparation of thin-film nanocomposite (TFN) RO membrane. The permeance of as-fabricated TFN membrane is up to nearly 3-folder higher than the nascent membrane, while it still maintains a high rejection towards NaCl. This in situ assembly strategy reported here could pave a promising way for the fabrication of TFN RO membranes with other nanomaterials in future.
嘉宾简介：牛青山博士，河南宝丰人，2014以海外高层次人才引进，任中国石油大学（华东）特聘教授、博士生指导老师，目前在中国石油大学（华东）重质油国家重点实验室领导膜材料与膜过程学科建设及研发团队青年教师、研究生的培养工作。牛青山教授长期从事分离膜材料、电子材料和能源材料的研发和产业化工作：先后在美国陶氏化学米德兰研发总部（电子材料），美国陶氏化学FilmTec公司（反渗透膜材料），美国通用电气水处理及过程处理（反渗透膜材料及应用），美国陶氏化学中国上海亚太研发中心（能源材料，锂电材料）担任高级研究员、首席工程师及首席科学家职务，是国际知名材料专家。在半导体光刻胶、微电子介电材料、反渗透膜，锂电材料等领域从事研究20余年，取得了重大的科研成果，曾于2002年获得了陶氏化学颁发的杰出科技成果奖。

